diary

7/10/19
Our group as decided to create a calendar application which utilises natural language processing

9/10/19
Today we stayed back for our group meeting. We finalised all our US for the first sprint. Our sprint length is 1 week we decided. I have been assigned to focus on event creation deletion and editing. 

10/10/19
Today I start on the code with Morgan. I completed the deletion of an event for a user, as well as the editing of an event for a user. We created a series of getters and setters as well as basic functions to add delete and edit events for our calendar. We also defined most of the attributes we think will be useful for our application.

11/10
Very minor refactoring of our code occurred, for improved encapsulation. I have also started watching videos and learning how to utilise react, so that I am able to assist my team with the front end work when that becomes an issue. 

12/10
Started writing pytest as well as added getters and setters to test backend functionality. Over the next week I hope to make sure that the basic core functionality is working for event creation through a form.

13/10
Today I didn't do anything for the project as I had other commitments. Come tomorrow we will have our team meeting and we will discuss issues and things that have happened over the past few days.

14/10
In our team meeting we decided on camelcase. We also introduced a new class, category to hold our events. Since we reached our milestones early, we decided to start on our frontend. We will be looking for libraries to help us generate a calendar application.

16/10
Had to refactor all the code for our new classes, which meant shifting code between classes to ensure no high coupling. Changed everything to camelcase and changed the words to give more clarity and understanding as to what the attributes mean. Started to focus on adding minor but helpful functionality to the application such as if the dates are not valid, or if the event is shared and then deleted.

18/10
Spent all day writing Pytest for all our functions, making sure all our backend is functional. This particularly involved writing test cases for edge cases. Also started writing code for the notifications for shared events. A lot of bug fixing was also required due to changing classes and refactoring of codes.

19/10
Today I spent the whole day doing the group project plan and lecture summaries and as such didn't have time to contribute to the code. Given the pace at which I have been working I'm pretty happy with the current status of our project. Investing more time into the project plan is ideal to ensure the scope of our project is successful.

20/10
Spent the rest of the day finishing the project plan in time for submission. I plan on starting on front end user login tomorrow as per our sprint requirements.

21/10
Today we finished off the login screen functionality. I stayed back with Michael to do front end flask for login as well as linking it to backend. We included crypt to correctly hash passwords and ensure security. We also added our HTML templates for front end. 

24/10
Started implementing the notification and event changes as well as responses to event invitations. These two processes are intertwined and as such I hope to finish these together by the next sprint commencement.

25/10
Continued working on the previous things.

26/10
Wrote Pytests to ensure that notifications and event changes are working as intended.

27/10
Started doing the time breakdowns along side the previous.

29/10
Finished time breakdowns and also finished event notifications. Also wrote pytest for all of this in the mean time. Made sure the Pytests were working for the updates in all our classes.

30/10
Wrote Pytests for all functions in all modules, all are functional
Finished off the sprint targets, event notifications, event updates and time breakdowns
Added minor edge cases to all existing functions.

31/10
Started implementing the groups functionality for our calendar. This allows users to have a quick invite feature. 

1/11
Have finished the groups class to include everything necessary to maintaining a group, such as adding and removing members.

4/11
Added ways to add new calendars into a users calendar list. Also gave the user options to edit their own calendar. We also added features that improve user experience, such as preventing calendars from having the same name.

6/11
Had database issues which prevented me from coding much. Had to try to fix these issues over the next few days...

7/11
Over the next 5 days I will look to relearn react. I will also look to learn how to use flask properly as well as javascript as I have never used it before.

11/11
Team meeting decided to spend time bug fixing. Also fixed the group functionality to perform as the rest of the team expected. There were some misunderstandings as to what 

12/11
Met with Michael to fix database issues

13/11
Started working front end, managed to 

14/11
Worked with Michael to finish calendar jsx

15/11
Redoing it

16/11
Meeting call w Morgan and Zainab - fixing up db issues and working on nlp frontend integration

17/11
Worked on persisting the add/create/get/delete of events

18/11
Met with the team in person, helped Zainab with rendering calendar successfully, with preset dates/info as well as loading on load of calendar, fixed a lot of date format issues between javascript and flask

Also helped Michael with the search function, getting that to render properly. Managed to get the events to load on load of calendar screen.

19/11
Today we spent time bug fixing any existing errors such as loading and rendering issues. Me and Michael successfully implemented the search function to correctly return an appropriate list of events. We also worked on formatting dates as well as improving user interaction with the website. More drop down menus were added and more fields were passed into and out of the database.
